W-19804084-rtf-3.0-documentation-kt (#1592)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/use-anypoint-monitoring.adoc

MuleSoft runs Anypoint Monitoring agents alongside Mule apps to send telemetry to the Anypoint control plane.

Starting with Runtime Fabric agent version 3.0.0, all telemetry (metrics, logs, and traces) is transported through a single sidecar container deployed per application replica. This architecture provides better resource isolation and eliminates the need for node-level DaemonSet deployments.

> Dependent on the features you use, the sidecar agent consumes corresponding resources for optimal performance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the features you use, the sidecar agent consumes corresponding resources for optimal performance:
```

----

Replace `{authToken}`, `{orgId}`, and `{fabricId}` with your specific values.

[[redeploy-apps-legacy-log-forwarding]]
==== Redeploy Applications Using Legacy Log Forwarding

All applications currently forwarding logs through the DaemonSet must be redeployed. This switches them to use the sidecar container for log forwarding. You can trigger a redeployment by making any update to the application in Runtime Manager, or by using the Runtime Manager API.

[[remove-log-forwarder-daemonset]]
==== Remove the Log Forwarder DaemonSet

After all applications are using the new sidecar-based log forwarding, remove the legacy DaemonSet by calling the Runtime Fabric API:

[source,bash]
----
curl -X PATCH \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {authToken}' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json;charset=UTF-8' \
  -H 'Accept: application/json, text/plain, */*' \
  https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/organizations/{orgId}/fabrics/{fabricId}/logforwarding \
  -d '{"anypointMonitoring": false}'
----

Replace `{authToken}`, `{orgId}`, and `{fabricId}` with your specific values.

[NOTE]
====

> Disabling the DaemonSet does not impact log forwarding to Anypoint Monitoring via the sidecar containers. Your applications will continue to forward logs normally after completing these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disabling the DaemonSet doesn't impact log forwarding to Anypoint Monitoring via the sidecar containers. Your applications will continue to forward logs normally after completing these steps.
```
